# MajorPlanningProgram
Program that helps you visualize different paths through majors in college. The program uses Java to avoid memory allocation issues. There is not a inherent graph datastructure in the java core. Thus, I used JGraphT as an extension library and am writing my own graphics. 

I base my decisions on logic -- which requires substantial gathering and evaluation of relevant information. I applied this logic to making four year plans in an attempt to maximize the breadth of opportunity Stanford offers.  This goal required a lot of careful planning to make sure I could still finish a chosen major on time. I needed a better tool than excel for mapping out potential paths through Stanford due to the abundance of information (courses, major requirements, advice from professors, etc) available. 
	During the last few weeks of summer, I built part of a four year plan visualizer in Java to fulfill this need. The end product will allow the user to select the majors they are considering and the number of terms left in a person’s college career and enter in courses already taken. The program reads in textfiles of the selected majors, generates a list of required courses left to take and “choice groups of courses.” I organizes the courses into “trails,” or a Direct Graph with one prerequisite leading to the next (for example, CS 106A → CS 106B → CS 107) using information from explorecourses (gathered by HTML scraping). The program stores these trails in a larger LinkedList object of terms, with each trail starting at the first available term (for a trail starting with CS 106A, that would be fall since that is the first term CS 106A is offered). 
The front end result is an interactive GUI. The user can selected any node (any course) and move it forward to the next available term. The program moves any courses that come after that course forward in the LinkedList structure, thus allowing the user to see the effect of his or her choice to take a class one term or another on the overall four year plan.
I wrote the Course, Track, and ChoiceGroup classes in full. I also wrote the majority of the major class, which reads in text files of a major and creates a set of required courses and a set of choice groups. After pseudocoding the complex interactions of the many classes, the main challenges I came across were integrating the Java extension libraries into eclipse and finding documentation for the JGraphT libraries I was leveraging.

